Matrix DWPC section (#17)
greenelab/connectivity-search-manuscript: content/05.main-text.md

Both of these implementations require traversing all paths between the source and target node.
Hence, they are computationally cumbersome despite optimizations [@doi:10.15363/thinklab.d187].

> Since our methods only require weighted counts, not fully enumerated paths, adjacency matrix multiplication presents an alternative approach.

Reviewer: Should we say `degree-weighted counts`? I want to avoid confusion with weighted edges in an adjacency matrix. We used binary adjacency matrices, but some readers might associate "weighted" with edge weights.

Here and below.

Multiplication alone, however, counts walks rather than paths, meaning paths traversing a single node multiple times are counted.
When computing network-based features to quantify the relationship between a source and target node,
we would like to exclude traversing duplicate nodes (i.e. paths, not trails nor walks) [@doi:10.15363/thinklab.d134].
To benefit from the speed advantages of only counting paths, we developed a suite of algorithms to compute true path counts and DWPCs using matrix multiplication.

Our implementation begins by categorizing a metapath according to the pattern of its repeated metanodes, allowing DWPC computation using a specialized order of operations.

> For example, the metapath _DrDtCrC_  is categorized as a set of disjoint repeats, while _DtCtDtC_ is categorized as repeats of the form BABA.

Reviewer: Would it be helpful to change `_DtCtDtC_` to `_DtCtDpC_` so the example shows that the metanodes and not metaedges are what matters?

\begin{align}
\mathrm{D}(\mathit{XaYbXcY}) =\ &\mathrm{D}(\mathit{XaY})\  \mathrm{D}(\mathit{YbX})\  \mathrm{D}(\mathit{XcY}) \\
&- \mathrm{diag}(\mathrm{D}(\mathit{XaY})\  \mathrm{D}(\mathit{YbX}))\  \mathrm{D}(\mathit{XcY}) \\
&- \mathrm{D}(\mathit{XaY})\  \mathrm{diag}(\mathrm{D}(\mathit{YbX})\  \mathrm{D}(\mathit{XcY})) \\
&+ \mathrm{D}(\mathit{XaY})\  \odot \mathrm{D}(\mathit{YbX})^T\  \odot \mathrm{D}(\mathit{XcY})
\end{align}

Most paths of length six---and many even longer paths---can be represented hierarchically using these patterns.
For example, a long metapath pattern of the form CBABACXYZ can be segmented as (C(BABA)C)XYZ using patterns for short and overlapping repeats and can be computed using the tools we developed.
In addition to these matrix routines---which advantageously count rather than enumerate paths---we implemented a general matrix method for any metapath type.
The general method is important for patterns such as long ($\geq$ 4) repeats, or complex repeat patterns (eg. of the form ABCABC), but it requires path enumeration and is therefore slower.

> As an alternative approach for complex paths, we developed an approximate DWPC method that corrects repeats in disjoint simple patterns but only corrects the first repeat in complex patterns (eg. $\geq$ length four repeat).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an alternative approach for complex paths, we developed an approximate DWPC method that corrects repeats in disjoint simple patterns but only corrects the first repeat in complex patterns (e.g. ≥ length four repeat).
```

since there's more overhead to rendering equations, best to avoid math mode when a unicode symbol exists.
